Added documentation for inspecting and resetting ipfs default profile (#545)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/how-to/default-profile.md

---
title: Default profile
legacyUrl: https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/examples/default-profile/
description: Your profile defines which file-system and data-store your IPFS node will use, along with other configuration options. Learn how to set, change, and reset your profile.
---

# Configure a default profile and switching between profiles

> The profile of your IPFS node allows you to specify which file-system or data-store you want to use. Changing these options will affect the performance of your node. For example, if you want to have a faster datastore for your node, you can use the `badgerds` profile. If you're running your node on a low-power device like a Raspberry Pi, you can use the `low-power` profile. Profiles have been developed to customize your IPFS node to perform best under given conditions.

Author: @AlexxNica the above change was recommended by @johnnymatthews. I'd wait for his opinion first before committing this change

## Find your current profile

> Your IPFS profile is found within your node's `config` file. The default location for the `config` file is `~/.ipfs/config`. If you have set an `$IPFS_PATH` variable, you can find your `config` file at `$IPFS_PATH/config`. Use `grep` to find the currently set profile:

Reviewer: Although it shortens the paragraph, this suggestion doesn't improve the readability of this content.

```bash
cat ~/.ipfs/config | grep "prefix"
# or

> cat $IPFS_PATH/config | grep "prefix"

Reviewer: That's a fair assumption.

> "prefix": "flatfs.datastore",
> "prefix": "leveldb.datastore",
```

IPFS uses the `flatfs` profile by default. `flatfs` is implemented using LevelDB, which is why you also see another line in the output with `leveldb.datastore`, but they both refer to `flatfs` datastore.

If you previously configured your IPFS node to use another profile, let's say `badgerds`, the above command would output the following:

> ```bash

Author: @alexxnica all of the docs in this project use bash for shell highlighting for linux/mac. It's also used by a much larger audience. 

Additionally, bash here doesn't refer to compatibility with bash but only syntax highlighting.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: @jay-dee7, I checked, and you're right; though not all files here use this approach, it's the most used one, just if you're curious:

` ```bash` is used 155 times, across 30 different files.
` ```sh` is used 7 times, across 4 different files.

I think we can discuss this further in the future, but let's leave it at that for now. I appreciate your prompt response though.

> ```bash

Reviewer: In all honestly, we could probably use something like `json` here, since it formats things a bit nicer. But like you said @AlexxNica, this is a discussion for another time.

"prefix": "badger.datastore",
```

This output line refers to `badgerds` profile .

## Available profiles

Here's a list of all the profiles available for your IPFS node:

- `flatfs`
- `badgerds`
- `server`
- `randomports`
- `default-datastore`
- `local-discovery`
- `test`
- `default-networking`

> - `lowpower`

Author: @AlexxNica this was suggested by @johnnymatthews. Plus It's always better to avoid more user clicks. Redirecting the user to another page only to come back here seems to be a little over-do. @johnnymatthews would love your opinion on this.

> - `lowpower`

Reviewer 2: @jay-dee7, we may be better off by referencing to a single source of truth and having less technical debt related to maintenance. Besides, only having the available options doesn't tell the user what each option does and their reasoning.

But I can be wrong. What do you think?

> - `lowpower`

Reviewer 2: @jay-dee7, we may be better off by referencing to a single source of truth and having less technical debt related to maintenance. Besides, only having the available options doesn't tell the user what each option does and the reasoning behind them.

But I can be wrong. What do you think?

> - `lowpower`

Author: @AlexxNica I totally believe that having a single source of truth definitely helps. Maybe we can migrate the entire doc from github readme to over here on [docs.ipfs.io](docs.ipfs.io). I'll be happy if the user finds everything under a single page tho

> - `lowpower`

Reviewer: You're both correct. Having all documentation in one place is the dream, but we don't want to increase our technical debt. A [project was created](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-docs/projects/3) towards the end of 2020 to start single-sourcing IPFS documentation. For now, I'm going to leave this list in, with the aim of having clearer explanations of these profiles in the future.

---
title: Default profile
legacyUrl: https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/examples/default-profile/
description: Hands-on guide for rolling back to the default profile
---

# Configure a default profile and switching between profiles

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

HRs aren't necessary. Adding extra styling like this makes it difficult to be consistent across all pages in this site.

> ### What is a profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since this is an _introduction_ paragraph that's explaining what profiles do, it doesn't need to come under it's own sub-title.

> A profile can be used to tweak the performance of your IPFS node. If you want to have a faster, more performant datastore for your IPFS node, you can use a profile like `badgerds`, but also it requires more memory. If you're running your ipfs node on a low-power device (like a raspberry-pi), you can use a profile like `low-power`. Profiles have been developed to customize your ipfs node to perform best under given conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The profile of your IPFS node allows you to specify which file-system or data-store you want to use. Changing these options will affect the performance of your node. For example, if you want to have a faster datastore for your node, you can use the `badgerds` profile. If you're running your node on a low-power device like a raspberry-pi, you can use the `low-power` profile. Profiles have been developed to customize your IPFS node to perform best under given conditions.
```

> ### Default Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Default profile

```

Titles should follow sentence structure and only be one `#` up or down from the previous title. Leave an empty space after titles. [Read the contribution docs for more info](https://docs.ipfs.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#style).

> By default, IPFS uses `flatfs` profile. This is the most battle-tested and reliable datastore. You can verify this by inspecting your IPFS config file, it's usually located at `$IPFS_PATH/config`. If your `$IPFS_PATH` is not set, then it'll be located at `$HOME/.ipfs/config`.

Reviewer: Replace this paragraph with a [list of the available profiles.](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/blob/master/docs/config.md).

```suggestion
```

> ### Find your current profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Find your current profile

```

Titles should follow sentence structure and only be one # up or down from the previous title. Leave an empty space after titles. [Read the contribution docs for more info.](https://docs.ipfs.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#titles)

> ```bash {.line-numbers}
> cat $IPFS_PATH/config | grep "prefix"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Your IPFS profile is found within your node's `config` file. The default location for the `config` file is `~/.ipfs/config`. If you have set an `$IPFS_PATH` variable you can find your `config` file at `$IPFS_PATH/config`. Use `grep` to find the currently set profile:

```bash
cat ~/.ipfs/config | grep "prefix"
# or
cat $IPFS_PATH/config | grep "prefix"
```

> "prefix": "flatfs.datastore",
> "prefix": "leveldb.datastore",
````

> Above command would give you an output similar to this:
> ```bash
> "prefix": "flatfs.datastore",
> "prefix": "leveldb.datastore",
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Try to include the output of a command within the same codeblock as the input.

> IPFS by default uses `flatfs` profile, `flatfs` is implemented using leveldb, which is why you also see another line with `leveldb.datastore`, but they both refer to `flatfs` datastore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IPFS by uses the `flatfs` profile by default. `flatfs` is implemented using leveldb, which is why you also see another line with `leveldb.datastore`, but they both refer to `flatfs` datastore.
```

> If previously you configured your IPFS node to use another profile, let's say `badgerds`, the above command would give you an output similar to the following:
> ```bash
> "prefix": "badger.datastore",
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
If previously you configured your IPFS node to use another profile, let's say `badgerds`, the above command would give you an output similar to the following:

```bash
"prefix": "badger.datastore",
```
````

Leave an empty line on either side of codeblocks.

> This output line refers to profile `badgerds`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This output line refers to profile `badgerds`.
```

End sentence with a period.

> Here's a list of all the available profiles for your ipfs node. You can match the profile with any of the following profiles to find what profile is currently being used by your node:
> 
> * `server`
> * `randomports`
> * `default-datastore`
> * `local-discovery`
> * `test`
> * `default-networking`
> * `flatfs`
> * `badgerds`
> * `lowpower`
> 
> > If you want to understand more about these profiles, please visit [here](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/blob/master/docs/config.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Include this further up (see earlier comment for details).

> ### Reset IPFS installtion to default profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reset your profile
```

If you want to reset your IPFS node profile to the default profile, you can do so by using the following method:

```bash
ipfs config profile apply default-datastore
```

> This command would show you the difference between your existing IPFS config and the new configuration. Also, it would overwrite your ipfs config file, so it's always better to create a backup of your existing ipfs configuration before running this command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command would show you the difference between your existing IPFS config and the new configuration. Also, it would overwrite your IPFS `config` file, so it's always better to create a backup of your existing ipfs configuration before running this command.
```

Always capitalize IPFS, unless it is in a codeblock.

> However, not all profiles are compatible with each other simply because they use very different technologies for storing the data inside the datastores. For instance, if you want to convert `badgerds` to `default-datastore`, you would have to use another helper tool called [ipfs-ds-convert](https://dist.ipfs.io/#ipfs-ds-convert) to convert the datastore to the required format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Converting profiles

Not all profiles are compatible with each other simply because they use very different technologies for storing the data inside the datastores. For instance, if you want to convert `badgerds` to `default-datastore`, you would have to use another helper tool called [ipfs-ds-convert](https://dist.ipfs.io/#ipfs-ds-convert) to convert the datastore to the required format. 
```

Install `ipfs-ds-convert` tool from the given link and run the following command to finally convert the datastore:

> ```bash
> ipfs-ds-convert convert
> ```
> > This can take a very long time to complete depending on the size of the datastore. If running this on a headless server it's recommended to use something like `screen` or `tmux` to run this command in a persistent shell.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
ipfs-ds-convert convert
```

This can take a very long time to complete depending on the size of the datastore. If running this on a headless server it's recommended to use something like `screen` or `tmux` to run this command in a persistent shell.
````

Leave an empty line after code blocks. Do not use quote blocks for styling. Quote blocks should only be used when quoting something/someone.

> After the above command finishes, your ipfs node should be reset to the default profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the above command finishes, your IPFS node should be reset to the default profile.
```

IPFS should always be in upper-case.

---
title: Default profile
legacyUrl: https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/examples/default-profile/
description: Your profile defines which file-system and data-store your IPFS node will use, along with other configuration options. Learn how to set, change, and reset your profile.
---

# Configure a default profile and switching between profiles

> The profile of your IPFS node allows you to specify which file-system or data-store you want to use. Changing these options will affect the performance of your node. For example, if you want to have a faster datastore for your node, you can use the `badgerds` profile. If you're running your node on a low-power device like a raspberry-pi, you can use the `low-power` profile. Profiles have been developed to customize your IPFS node to perform best under given conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The profile of your IPFS node allows you to specify which file-system or data-store you want to use. Changing these options will affect the performance of your node. For example, if you want to have a faster datastore for your node, you can use the `badgerds` profile. If you're running your node on a low-power device like a Raspberry Pi, you can use the `low-power` profile. Profiles have been developed to customize your IPFS node to perform best under given conditions.
```

## Find your current profile

Your IPFS profile is found within your node's `config` file. The default location for the `config` file is `~/.ipfs/config`. If you have set an `$IPFS_PATH` variable, you can find your `config` file at `$IPFS_PATH/config`. Use `grep` to find the currently set profile:

```bash
cat ~/.ipfs/config | grep "prefix"
# or
cat $IPFS_PATH/config | grep "prefix"

> "prefix": "flatfs.datastore",
> "prefix": "leveldb.datastore",
```

IPFS uses the `flatfs` profile by default. `flatfs` is implemented using LevelDB, which is why you also see another line in the output with `leveldb.datastore`, but they both refer to `flatfs` datastore.

> If previously you configured your IPFS node to use another profile, let's say `badgerds`, the above command would give you an output similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you previously configured your IPFS node to use another profile, let's say `badgerds`, the above command would output the following:
```

```bash
"prefix": "badger.datastore",
```

This output line refers to `badgerds` profile .

## Available profiles

> Here's a list of all the profiles available for your IPFS node. You can compare the output from above command with any of the following profiles to find what profile is currently being used by your node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a list of all the profiles available for your IPFS node:
```

+       << "mounts": [{"child":{"path":"blocks","shardFunc":"/repo/flatfs/shard/v1/next-to-last/2","sync":true,"type":"flatfs"},"mountpoint":"/blocks","prefix":"flatfs.datastore","type":"measure"},{"child":{"compression":"none","path":"datastore","type":"levelds"},"mountpoint":"/","prefix":"leveldb.datastore","type":"measure"}],
-       >> "prefix": "badger.datastore",
        <> "type": "measure"
        ** "type": "mount"
    },
    "StorageGCWatermark": 90,
    "StorageMax": "10GB"
},
...
```

Above command shows the difference between your existing IPFS config and the new configuration. Also, it would overwrite your IPFS `config` file, so it's always better to create a backup of your existing IPFS configuration before running this command.

## Converting profiles

Not all profiles are compatible with each other simply because they use very different technologies for storing the data inside the datastores. For instance, if you want to convert `badgerds` to `default-datastore`, you would have to use another helper tool called [ipfs-ds-convert](https://dist.ipfs.io/#ipfs-ds-convert) to convert the datastore to the required format.

> Install `ipfs-ds-convert` tool from the given link and run the following command to finally convert the datastore:

Reviewer: Tell the user how to _install_ this tool. It looks like they just have to download it, unzip the package, and run the executable.

Author: sure @johnnymatthews i'll add instructions about installing `ipfs-ds-convert` as well

```bash
ipfs-ds-convert convert

> convert 2020/12/06 21:27:26 Checks OK
> convert 2020/12/06 21:27:27 Copying keys, this can take a long time
> copied 2002 keys
> convert 2020/12/06 21:29:01 All data copied, swapping repo
> convert 2020/12/06 21:29:02 Verifying key integrity
> convert 2020/12/06 21:29:02 2002 keys OK
> convert 2020/12/06 21:29:02 Saving new spec
> convert 2020/12/06 21:29:02 All tasks finished
```

> This can take a very long time to complete depending on the size of the datastore. If running this on a headless server it's recommended to use something like `screen` or `tmux` to run this command in a persistent shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can take a very long time to complete. If you are running this on a headless server we recommend you use something like `screen` or `tmux` to run this command in a persistent shell.
```
